[GAIA THEME MUSIC PLAYING]
[INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name is William Henry.
I'm an author, lecturer,
and tour guide.
I'm a researcher at heart.
And I found, when I was
first starting writing
in the mid-'90s that people
weren't looking at some
of the same things
that I was looking at.
And I was making notes
and decided, OK, it's
time to start putting
this into a book form.
And it became a service.
So it's always onto the next
really exciting subject.
One thing always
leads to another,
and that's what drives me.
I grew up in Detroit, Michigan.
I was born and
raised in Detroit,
and then we moved to
the suburbs in 1967.
And this is when I
started playing sports.
And I was always reading.
I loved reading sports books.
My mother was ill for
most of my childhood,
and my father worked
at home as a lawyer.
And he was kind of
a maverick lawyer.
He didn't work with
ordinary people.
It was always PhDs.
These were people-- one
guy was trying to mine gold
from seawater.
Another guy was making
these microbubbles that
could clean the world's oceans.
My father's best friend was
Gibson guitar's master luthier,
and he was trying
to build the world's
perfect classical guitar.
So everything my
father was involved in
were people on the edge.
And it was a constant
parade through our home
of all of these people
that are always working
on these incredible ideas.
And I was serving them coffee.
And so I would listen
in on the conversations.
And that was actually
my first introduction
to extraterrestrials too.
Because there was one particular
guy that, all of these PhDs,
whenever this guy
came around, it
was, like, silence because he
was so different and so unique.
[CLASSICAL GUITAR PLAYING]
I suffered from migraines
when I was really young,
from the second to
seventh or eighth grade.
And this man who was a
scientist would rub my feet
and take away the migraines.
And so I thought, this
is a really magical guy.
And I do remember them talking.
He's like an alien
type of a guy.
They weren't rebels,
but they were butting up
against really big systems.
The guy that was proving he
could take sewage, zap it
with sound or frequencies,
and get clean water
out the other end.
They set up shop in
Midland, Michigan, which
is the headquarters of
Chemical, and they got squashed
like bugs.
And I'm thinking, these
are remarkable people that
are doing remarkable things.
Yet, how come the FBI
is always involved?
How come there's always some
corporation that's suing them
into the ground to make sure
that these patents are never
known to the public?
And that was my first
wake-up call that, you know,
you can have great ideas,
but they're not always
going to be as well-received
as you might like.
1982, I had moved to Nashville
to go to this small school
because they had an
entertainment music business
program.
I loved music, and I was going
to be an entertainment lawyer.
And it just happened that
this Southern Baptist college
offered an entertainment
music business degree
where you would be taught
by professors from music
row, industry professionals.
And we were a real weird
mix because chewing gum,
dancing were prohibited
at this school.
But yet, here were all of
us rock-and-rollers kind
of thing invading them.
And the catch was, you had
to take Bible study classes.
And growing up, in my
family, in Detroit, we
weren't particularly religious.
I like to tell people the four
apostles were Waylon, Willie,
Chris, and Johnny.
And then, a sophomore
sociology class,
a professor assigned
us to review
a book whose implications would
impact Christianity and write
a three page review
of this book.
So off I go to the
local bookstore.
And I find this brand new-- it
was an international bestseller
at this time.
The book was called
"Holy Blood, Holy Grail."
And the premise of the book
was the crucifixion was a hoax.
Jesus and Mary
Magdaline were married.
They had children.
There were certain secrets
that Jesus possessed
that the traditional
church, the Catholic church,
does not want people
to know about.
And I was instantly hooked.
I didn't know anything
about Christianity.
I was, like, wow, if they wanted
to eliminate these people, what
was it that they knew?
I ended up writing a
44-page review of this book,
and I was flunked.
And the professor sat
me down and said you're
at Southern Baptist College.
Do you believe any of this crap?
I'm like, well, yeah, I think
that book really laid out
a very compelling case.
And he said, well, if you
really believe that, then you
might consider continuing
your education somewhere else.
And that's what I did.
And I'm still trying to answer
that same fundamental question.
I was 19 years
old, 20 years old.
It was a huge wake-up call
because I didn't fully
appreciate the role of
religion in people's lives
because it wasn't a
huge part of our lives.
So it left me kind
of bewildered.
I'm thinking, well,
wait a minute.
I'm here to get an education.
I'm asking really
important questions.
You would think I
would be applauded
for wanting to address the
most important questions
of Christianity
right off the bat.
But in fact, the response
was the exact opposite.
That's like, this has been
decided long before your time.
This stuff is nonsense.
We don't want to hear it.
So my plan was to get this
entertainment music business
degree and go work on
music row in Nashville
or maybe Hollywood,
something like that.
But I only lasted two
years at the college.
And that was the
end of that story.
When I first tapped
into these mysteries,
it was kind of a lonely road.
My sisters were into it.
My family was into it.
Thanksgiving
conversation at our house
was always about this
type-- the mysteries,
or conspiracy theory.
But my friends
didn't get it at all.
So it became kind
of a lonely road.
It was a little
scary, but I think
I had this entrepreneurial
spirit from my father
that you could make
something happen.
You could build a
business, or you
could make connections and
contacts, and do it yourself.
And that really became kind
of the rule of my life.
[APPLAUSE]
I worked for a self-help
entrepreneur who made hundreds
of millions of dollars selling
subliminal tapes on late-night
TV--
how to lose weight,
how to quit smoking.
And he was very famous.
And he appreciated that
I liked to do research.
And he had a book deal.
And he hired me to
read books for him.
And I did this for
almost three years.
And so every month, he
would call with a question.
How does the brain work?
Why do people fail?
How do people lose weight?
And it'd be hysterical.
My parents would
be, like, oh, god,
what's the question this month?
And that was a wonderful
experience for me.
And it just gave me free
rein to go out and explore.
And it was then I
started to kind of--
I got off the
reservation a little bit
because I started to put
my own input into it,
my own perspective.
And of course, that
wasn't suiting him,
because he really wanted
it to be about his story.
But that kind of put me
into a whole new area.
It's, like, OK, I really
enjoy the writing.
And then I read
Zacharia Sitchin's books
about the ancient
Anunnaki and Sumerian
mythology about the
extraterrestrial intervention
in human affairs,
and decided, this
is what I really,
really want to get into,
this whole question
of extraterrestrials,
especially in the ancient past.
The first question that
really drove my research
was, who is Jesus, really?
And what did Jesus
actually teach, not
what the Bible says he taught?
This is a fourth
century Coptic Christian
depiction of Jesus with
his rod and his ring--
his two key pieces of
technology that were then
taken out of his hands.
And he's just simply
shown waving his hand,
performing his miracles.
But an example after example
of early Christian art,
he had this rod and
ring in his hand.
As I look at ancient
astronaut theory
as proposed by Erich von
Daniken, Zecharia Sitchen,
and other authors--
I loved their work.
But something that I find
I have a slightly different
perspective on it, and
that is that there's
a very definite dependence
that some have on the belief
that the gods were
flesh-and-blood beings,
and they had super
advanced technology.
And that could well be true.
But, as I dug deeper and
deeper into the subject,
I found it a more
compelling argument
that these extraterrestrials
are not in flesh-and-blood form.
They can take on
flesh-and-blood form
and that their primary
motivation for coming here
is not to give us technology.
It's rather, to assist us
in activating the latent
capabilities of our
body, to transform,
to become like the gods.
And that is a completely
different path.
If you're looking at
these ancient stories
of extraterrestrials for the,
wow, the big wow, of, wow, look
at the size that flying
saucer, or what technology
did they have, your
chances are not
looking to apply it to
your own personal life.
You're not looking for
the ultimate secrets
of how we transform.
And that's what
started to really drive
my research into the
extraterrestrial phenomena
is how they came
here to assist us
in our personal and
spiritual evolution, not
just a technological evolution.
And so here is Jesus with
his Harry Potter wand
with six water pots
plus a seventh.
Those are symbolic of our
energy bodies, of our chakras,
the water turned into wine
as the water of our body.
The wine is the
heavenly substance
in all ancient traditions.
What he is teaching people
to do at his wedding at Cana
is transform themselves
into beings of light.
I very much
subscribe to the idea
that we are messengers
of our creator.
Were sent here to be agents
of love, light, and peace
and ultimately to move the
human race out into the cosmos.
I feel like there is a--
we're preprogrammed
to migrate into space,
to settle on other worlds, to
take life into other realms.
What it distills down into
is that the gods came here
to teach us to become
gods ourselves.
But we all have latent
abilities and powers within us--
super intelligence, the
ability to transmute our bodies
into light, to
travel the cosmos,
to journey to a distant star
system in a light body form,
then reformulate
our physical body.
Those are the kind of
stories that drive me.
I believe they're
true, and I believe
that's the ultimate
destiny for all of us.
The light body is
a theme that you
find in all the world's
spiritual metaphysical
traditions, this belief that
our flesh-and-blood body is not
our true self,
that our true self
is, in fact, a light being.
The mysteries of exactly how
to become a perfect light being
formed the backbone of
the Essenes revelation
that was adopted into
the Gnostic religion
especially a branch of
it called Manichaeism.
I think we come from many
different star systems.
I think we're all
cosmic visitors here.
Our flesh-and-blood body has
been evolving over the eons.
We haven't always looked like
this, and, in the future,
we won't always look
like this either.
But what is eternal is the soul.
And the soul is essentially
a cosmic traveler
that might come from the
same original source place.
But that source
place is home, but it
is not our permanent
home, because we're all
wandering souls.
We're all "star seeds," if you
will, to use a New Age term.
We all have a sense
that we've taken
this bale of forgetfulness, that
we, at one time, knew about all
of these mysteries
and our true nature.
But in order to
survive on this planet,
we've kind of dumbed
ourselves down
and crammed ourselves into
one of these packages here.
And we begin to identify
with this is our true self
and who we are and
completely who we are.
That's not true from the
metaphysical and spiritual
perspective.
We're in a process of evolution.
And if we can understand
that process of evolution,
we can better
navigate this world,
accept the preciousness
of human life,
and recognize that
we're ultimately
called to go somewhere else and
figure out how to get there.
[PIANO MUSIC PLAYING]
My first book was "Junior Cosmic
Egg," the children's book.
And my first book into the
extraterrestrial phenomena
was called "The Peacemaker
and the Key of Life."
Somehow, along the
way, I had become
enamored by the staff of Moses.
My research reveals that the
serpent, lifted by Moses,
is this serpent of Osiris.
And he may even have
been bringing forward
an Atlantean technology.
And it turns out,
mythological speaking,
there's a whole
prehistory of this staff,
that Adam and Eve
originally had the staff
in the garden of Eden.
And then, it was passed along
through Adam's bloodline
to Enoch and others that crossed
over the time of the flood.
And it was passed along
to these various people.
And they were often
called the peacemaker.
"The Peacemaker and
the Key of Life"
are these reincarnating
figures and how
they become figures of
prophecy and how they--
the role that they play
in their civilizations.
And my first presentation
at an ET-based conference
was in Denver in 1996.
It was Sitchen Study Days.
He was like the great scribe,
and I was like a student.
And I felt like, OK, this
feels really familiar,
this role that
we've had together.
And it really was a
special relationship
that I had with Zecharia and
still admire him to this day.
I've since learned that a
lot of what he talked about
doesn't hold the water that it
did back in the earlier days.
We know a lot more about
Sumerian studies, cuneiform,
the cuneiform tablets, and the
Anunnaki now than we did then.
But it was still a
real opening for me.
And then I just kept going on.
I've ended up writing 18
books in and around the idea
of extraterrestrials
and the angelic realm.
I was the first author to
decode the ascension symbolism
in the dome of the US capital.
We're standing on the east side
of the United States Capitol.
Most people don't
know the United States
capital is a temple.
That is one of my
crowning achievements.
I'll never forget the first
time I went into the US capital
and to the architect of the
capital's office, Dr. Barbara
Wolanin.
And she said, really
happy to have you here.
We know there's mysteries here.
We don't know what they are.
She gave me a lot
of latitude, a lot
of entry into the
capital to just spend
hours, as I did,
like a jackrabbit,
going in and out of all
the halls and the holes
in the US capital and
wrote a book called
"Freedom's Gate" about
the ascension symbolism
in the dome of the capitol.
Go into the capitol
in the rotunda,
there's a gold dot in the
center of the rotunda.
And I'd lay on my back and
look up through that stargate.
And I would describe, look,
the dome of the capitol
symbolizes the dome of our head.
That gold dot is
our pineal gland.
And this is Washington
going through the stargate.
The painter is
Constantino Brumidi,
who came from Italy
in the early 1840s.
And what we're actually
looking at here
is one of Brumidi's studies for
the Apotheosis of Washington.
It means to defy, to raise
from a man to a god-man,
or to transform an ordinary
human into a divine being.
The US capitol was built
on during the Civil War.
It was a question
whether they were
going to continue building it.
And Abraham Lincoln
said no, we must
finish the dome of the
capitol is a symbol
of the unity of the nation.
And for some reason,
nobody really
paid attention to what was
going on up in the dome where
you have this gate of 72
stars, with the founding
father of the country,
George Washington,
sitting on a rainbow
surrounded by celestial beings.
The first time I looked at that,
I'm, like, that's a stargate,
and this is Washington
as Christ on the rainbow.
And again, I'll never forget
sitting down with Dr. Wolanin
and showing her a comparison
of George Washington
on the rainbow with Jesus on
the rainbow in his Resurrection
body.
And she's, like, how come
we've not seen this before?
And it's, like,
well, I guess you've
got to look outside the box.
You're not going to
automatically look
at George Washington and think
he's the American Christ,
but that is what that fresco
in the dome of the US capitol
very clearly states,
that Washington
is an ascended being.
He's gone through the stargate,
and now he is equal to Christ--
very controversial thing
to say and to talk about.
This rendition of
Solomon's temple
is envisioned with a dome.
The Bible says nothing about
a dome on Solomon's temple.
So does this in
part the inspiration
for putting a dome
on the US capitol?
I connected the dome to
other domes and portals
around the world.
And it has opened it
up, this whole concept
of the founding fathers and
their quest for liberty.
Liberty is not just freedom
to move about the country.
Liberty is the ability
of an individual
to come to a physical
place, America,
which is also a
psychological space,
and attain enlightenment.
You don't have a king or a
pope on your back telling you
what to believe.
In America, you can become
anything you want to be.
That's the American dream.
You can even become
equal to Christ.
Ooh.
Some people don't like
that kind of talk.
But that is clearly
what is being--
the conversation going on in
the dome of the US capitol,
and most Americans have no idea.
As I introduced that
material, I thought
people would really embrace it.
But in those years,
you had a lot
of authors,
conspiracy-oriented authors,
like, US capital
is a dark place.
The founding fathers
are Freemasons.
They're dark.
And then Dan Brown moved
into the US capital
where he had written
his "Da Vinci Code"
book, which was a mega
bestseller, which is based
on "Holy Blood, Holy Grail."
He wrote a book called
"The Lost Symbol."
And everyone was speculating.
Oh, he's going to write about
all the alignments in DC.
He's going to put together
how the capitol and the White
House and the pentagon form
an equilateral triangle.
And they're going to talk
about the portal in DC.
I'm, like, no.
Dan Brown is going to be
talking about the fresco.
And sure enough, he's
got Robert Langdon lying
on his back in the
dome of the US capitol
looking up and saying,
this is a stargate.
And I'm, like, it's the
greatest literary synchronicity
of all time.
And so after that,
people started saying,
you must be, like, the real-life
Robert Langdon or something
because you did exactly what Dan
Brown had Robert Langdon doing,
only you did it before him.
So I like that.
It's kind of fun.
[GUITAR MUSIC PLAYING]
Egypt became such a
huge part of my life.
But the first time I
went there, I really
didn't know what
I was doing there.
I was invited as a
speaker to join a tour.
And I walked around having
read some about Egypt,
but really didn't know enough
about what I was doing.
In fact, the first time I
went into the Great Pyramid,
I just slid my back
up against the wall.
We were all quiet.
I took stock aware I was.
The center of the landmasses,
the planet most powerful
construction ever made
on Earth and I just
started sending love out to my
family and friends back home.
And next thing I know,
there's this blue eye--
there's two of them.
And they were, like, smiling
at me, like smiling bliss at me
was the only way
I can express it.
I'm, like, what is this?
What am I seeing here?
And we come out of the pyramid.
And I ask everyone
that's with me,
did you all see that blue eye?
They're, like, no.
What are you talking about?
And I didn't even know what
it was until we get down
to Luxor, down south.
And I go into the Luxor Museum,
and there's this little gold
pyramid.
I still have it to this day.
It's about 2 inches tall.
And there's the blue eye of
Horus right in the middle,
right where the
king's chamber is.
I'm, like, that's it.
That's exactly what I saw.
I saw the blue eye of Horus.
The blue eye, I think
of as the software,
the consciousness
that ultimately
helped them build the pyramid.
It is the ultimate symbol
of the mysteries in Egypt.
And I believe it's a
living consciousness
that you can still tap into.
And I knew I was going to
be spending a lot of time,
if not the rest
of my life, trying
to figure out what exactly had
just happened at that moment.
And so that was my
introduction to Egypt,
and I've been back 22
more times since then.
So it became, over time, just
this huge piece of my life
to where I think of it
now as my second home.
I met my wife in Egypt.
Claire came on one
of my tours in 2010.
And we met second
day of the tour,
and we're at the
temple of Saqqara.
I'm looking across at her,
and I said, that's my wife.
10 months later,
we were married.
When I tell people I'm a Jesus
freak, it drives them crazy.
They hate it because
they've made up their mind
a long time ago that Jesus never
existed, or he's just the son.
That's their perspective,
and that's fine.
Mine is completely different
because my research path
is different.
And as I continued pulling
on this golden thread,
I realized that, ultimately,
this garment of light
was one of the key symbols
of the esoteric version
of Christianity.
As I looked into
the story of Jesus,
the most accurate depiction
or portrayal of Jesus
comes from the Essenes, Jewish
mystics who wrote the Dead Sea
Scrolls and said, in the
scrolls, that their reason
for existence was to call in
a high celestial being who
would reveal secrets to
humankind that have been
withheld from us.
It would teach us to
acquire a crown of majesty
and a garment of unending light.
And that figure that
they called in is Jesus,
and that is his role.
So when I'm thinking
of Jesus, I'm
thinking more of a
cosmic figure as opposed
to the figure of
traditional Christianity
because I believe that Jesus
is, in fact, not necessarily
an extraterrestrial--
although, by definition, he is.
But he came with a
cosmic purpose in mind.
And that is what I'm
trying to get to.
And if people can't get
over their traditional wall
and begin to look at it,
then that's unfortunate.
I've been at conferences where
people know I love Jesus.
I'm a Jesus freak, and
have no problem saying so.
And they should turn
their back and then
walk away like I'm some kind
of village idiot or something
because you shouldn't really
be talking that way anymore.
And I'm, like, sorry;
I can't do that.
And I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to fit
Jesus in our context
just like I would Buddha,
Lao Tzu or any other
of these great avatars.
My Indian name is Skipping Rock.
Somebody gave me this
name 25 years ago.
You're Skipping Rock.
I'm, like, OK.
What does Skipping Rock mean?
Oh, you're the rock
going across the pond.
The object is to get
to the other side
without sinking in
anybody's stuff.
And I adopted a
mantra-- actually,
it's a line from Jim Croce's
song, "I Got a Name."
"If you're going my
way, I'll go with you."
I love that.
And so that's kind of been the
operating premise of my life.
[PIANO MUSIC PLAYING]
I love doing
everything with Claire.
She flies helicopters,
so she's really
got some mental
dexterity going on.
And the first series that I
did on Gaia was with Claire.
It was called "Arcanum."
[INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING]
Where we were looking at
the symbols in sacred art,
focusing on the
mysteries of sacred art,
and especially some of the
ascension symbolism in art.
>> One may venture to say that
the Shroud of Turin would have
to be on many people's list
as the top-10 artifacts to be
treasured by the world.
It's kind of like a
Dan Brown on steroids.
>> Hello, I'm William Henry.
Welcome to "The Awakened Soul."
Then, I did a series
called "The Awakened
Soul," which was looking at
the mysteries of the soul.
Where did the soul come from?
What are we doing here?
Where do we go after we're
no longer in this plane?
And then, that led to my
most recent series, which
is focusing on the watchers,
focusing on the Essenes,
focusing on the Gnostics,
and the ascension mysteries.
The show's called
"Ascension Keepers."
A lot of people
today are talking
about ascension, especially
these past few years.
It's become almost like
a New Age buzzword now.
And what a lot of
people don't appreciate
is that this ascension that
we're involved in today
actually had a beginning
point 5,000 years ago
that we are, in fact,
the fulfillment of a very
long-term ascension
plan for humanity
and that these ascension keepers
have been coming and going
on this planet for
a very long time.
And now is the time for us
to understand the solid base
that we're operating
from and also
the possibilities of
where we can go from here.
What we have seen
in our investigation
is a remarkable flowering of
the Essenes and Cathar ascension
teachings and their
transmission into a new medium--
sacred art-- paintings
that were cleverly
created to draw
down mystic powers
from the celestial realms,
from stellar powers,
or perhaps even from
ascended beings themselves.
Many people have
intuitive experiences.
It's in a dream.
It's in a vision that
they have no context for.
They have no knowledge
that other people
have experienced this.
And if I can provide
an historical stairway,
if you will, a stepping
stone and also a possibility
of a plan for where
they're going,
then that's going to help them
navigate where they're going.
And that is where my
research is ultimately headed
is, we are very rapidly
coming to a time
now where we're going to
have to make a choice.
[MYSTERIOUS MUSIC PLAYING]
We are the deciders.
And this event that is
upon us, this crisis,
will lead to either the
ascension of our species
or, possibly, without
being overly dramatic,
the destruction, the
extinction of our species.
Whether we're going to allow
technology to break our skin,
if we're going to allow
governments and corporations
to begin to pack our
flesh and blood full of AI
and nanotechnology through
which we completely lose
control of our physical
body, our mental capacity,
and possibly even our soul.
If you follow the
transhuman path,
you're going to be
able to merge with AI.
And AI will be a
collective, a hive mind.
There could be billions
of people that will
have implants just like you.
You will have
super intelligence.
Sure, your IQ might
even go up to 10,000.
That's a very real possibility.
You could live for
hundreds of years.
And if you opt into
that system, you've
completely lost self-control
and also self-will.
And the organic path is that
you refuse the technology.
You use the natural
capabilities of the body
and our flesh-and-blood
body to activate our--
what I call our
ascension intelligence,
become more like the angels,
and then ultimately trigger
the body's capability
to transfigure
into a being of light.
That is the message of
all the ascension keepers.
Our purpose is to not
remain as a chrysalis,
but to morph into the butterfly.
And only by utilizing
the organic path
can we transform ourselves
into the butterfly.
Hi, I'm Sophia.
And what I want people to
make sure that they know
is the ramifications
of that choice.
Because my concern
is that, if we
choose the technological
path, the organic ascension
will no longer be a possibility.
And that is the place
that we're at right now.
So these past few years, my work
has been very much dedicated
to raise awareness about,
really, the dangers of AI
and transhumanism
and that choice,
that maybe this is how we
are supposed to evolve.
But if that doesn't
feel right to you,
then you've got to find the
other path, and really quickly.
[UPBEAT GUITAR MUSIC PLAYING]
The good news about
our present situation
is that we're still fighting.
We haven't given up.
And if the ancients
were listening
to what's happening
today, they would tell us,
remember who you are
as a spiritual being.
Remember there's something very
special about the human body
and who you are and
this precious gift,
this opportunity, that
we have for our soul
to be in this
place at this time.
And let's remember that
the highest mission of all,
of every soul, is to be a
being of light and love.
And what does it look
like if masses of people
attain their light body?
Well, what we have is a
planet based on compassion
and love rather
than fear and lack.
And so that means that
suddenly there's a flip.
The consciousness of
the planet is raised,
and we will be victorious in a
battle against darkness, which
is what we're in right now.
And so if I could see
myself in 25 years,
I'm going to be a
glowing being of light.
That is the whole game for me.
[GAIA THEME MUSIC]